SOURCE: HMRC GOV.UK - Check if you need to pay tax when you sell cryptoassets
URL: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/check-if-you-need-to-pay-tax-when-you-sell-cryptoassets
LAST UPDATED: April 2025

Check if you need to pay tax when you sell cryptoassets - GOV.UK
GOV.UK
Services and information
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Government activity
Departments
Departments, agencies and public bodies
News stories, speeches, letters and notices
Guidance and regulation
Detailed guidance, regulations and rules
Research and statistics
Reports, analysis and official statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Consultations and strategy
Transparency
Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports
Search GOV.UK
Search GOV.UK
Search
Search GOV.UK
Search
Money
Dealing with HMRC
Paying HMRC
Capital Gains Tax
Guidance
Check if you need to pay tax when you sell cryptoassets
Find out if you need to pay Capital Gains Tax on gains you make when you sell, exchange or give away cryptoasset tokens (like bitcoin, XRP or ether).
From:
HM Revenue & Customs
Published
19 December 2018
Last updated
29 May 2025
See all updates
Get emails about this page
Contents
When you need to pay
Working out your gain
Records you must keep
If you need to report and pay
More information
Print this page
When you need to pay
You may need to pay Capital Gains Tax if you make a gain when you ‘dispose’ of cryptoasset tokens (also known as cryptocurrency) by:
selling them
exchanging them for a different type of cryptoasset
using them to pay for goods or services
giving them to another person (unless it’s a gift to your spouse, civil partner or charity )
You need to work out your total gains from disposing of certain assets , including cryptoassets. If your total gain for the tax year (6 April to 5 April) is above the Capital Gains Tax tax-free allowance , then you must:
report the gain to HMRC
pay Capital Gains Tax
You may also need to pay other taxes if you receive cryptoassets .
Working out your gain
You need to work out your gain for each transaction you make. The way you work out your gain is different if you sell tokens within 30 days of buying them.
Your gain is normally the difference between what you paid for an asset and what you sold it for. However, there are some situations when you need to use the market value to work out your gain. For example, if you have cryptoassets that have been transferred between ‘connected persons’ .
You can:
deduct allowable costs
use capital losses on other assets to reduce your gain , but you’ll need to report them to us first
If you’ve paid Income Tax on any part of your cryptoasset token value, then you will not pay Capital Gains Tax on that amount. You’ll only pay it on any gain you make after receiving them. For example, if you dispose of tokens you received as earnings from your employment.
Pooling the cost of your tokens
You must group each type of token you own into ‘pools’ and work out the pooled cost for each type — this is known as ‘pooling’ the costs.
Each time you:
buy or receive tokens, add the amount you paid for them to the appropriate pool
dispose of tokens, deduct an equivalent proportion of the pooled costs and other allowable costs
Example
You buy 100 token XY for £2 each. The total cost is £200.
You later buy 300 token XY for £1 each. The total cost is £300.
In total, you have 400 token XY costing £500 — the average cost of each token is £1.25.
If you sell 200 token XY, the cost of the tokens for your tax calculations is £250 (£1.25 multiplied by 200). Deduct this from what you sold the tokens for to work out your gain.
Do not pool the cost of your tokens if you buy them:
on the same day that you sell tokens of the same type
within 30 days of selling tokens of the same type
In these cases, the rules for working out the costs are the same as working out the cost of shares. Read Shares and Capital Gains Tax (Self Assessment helpsheet HS284) .
What counts as an allowable cost
Allowable costs are the expenses that can be deducted from your gain to reduce your overall tax liability. These include the cost of:
transaction fees
advertising for a buyer or seller
drawing up a contract for the transaction
making a valuation so you can work out your gain for that transaction
a proportion of the pooled costs of your tokens
There are costs you cannot deduct. For example, costs:
you’ve already deducted against profits for Income Tax
of mining activities (like equipment or electricity)
Records you must keep
You must keep records as we’ll ask to see them if we carry out a compliance check.
For each pool of tokens, you must keep separate records for each transaction, including the:
type of tokens
date you disposed of them
number of tokens you’ve disposed of
number of tokens you have left
value of the tokens in pound sterling
bank statements
pooled costs before and after you disposed of them
You may also want to keep other records such as wallet addresses.
Some cryptoasset exchanges provide reports of your transactions. These can be essential for working out how much tax you owe, but:
they’re not tax calculations
they will not keep track of your pooled costs
You must keep your own records of your transactions.
If you need to report and pay
Read guidance on how to report and pay your Capital Gains Tax by either:
completing a Self Assessment tax return at the end of the tax year
using the Capital Gains Tax real time service
If you’re reporting your gain on a Self Assessment return, you should complete it in pound sterling, in the cryptoasset section — available on returns for the tax year 2024 to 2025 onwards.
You can use  HMRC’s Cryptoasset Disclosure Service , if you need to disclose unpaid tax for earlier tax years.
More information
Watch a video about how cryptoassets are taxed for individuals .
You can read further guidance on how cryptoassets are taxed .
Updates to this page
Published 19 December 2018
Last updated 29 May 2025
‐ hide all updates"
data-module="ga4-event-tracker"
data-ga4-expandable> + show all updates
29 May 2025
Information added that Self-Assessment returns now include a cryptoasset section which is available on returns for the tax year 2024 to 2025 onwards.
13 January 2025
Information about working out if you need to pay Capital Gains Tax by using the market value of your asset to work out your gain has been updated. Information about the records a cryptoasset exchange may keep and what you can do with them, and a link to HMRC's Cryptoasset Disclosure Service has been added.
19 December 2018
First published.
Get emails about this page
Print this page
Contents
Related content
Cryptoassets Manual
Detailed guidance
Check if you need to pay tax when you receive cryptoassets
Information you need to give to UK cryptoasset service providers
Tell HMRC about unpaid tax on cryptoassets
Collection
Cryptoassets
Explore the topic
Capital Gains Tax
Paying HMRC
Maybe
Yes this page is useful
No this page is not useful
Thank you for your feedback
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
What were you doing?
What went wrong?
Cancel
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab) .
Cancel
Services and information
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Government activity
Departments
Guidance and regulation
Research and statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Transparency
How government works
Get involved
Support links
Privacy
Accessibility statement
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Government Digital Service
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright